[Music]
your feet will someday thank you for
this band shoes in your house 9 reasons
why no I'm not talking about band shoes
here like you wear in marching band this
is band shoes as in prohibit them now
not everyone's in the habit of taking
off their shoes when they enter their
home if you're one of these people you
should know that bringing your shoes in
can carry dangerous bacteria make your
feet smell bad and spread germs all
around your home keep watching to learn
why your health can be affected by this
practice and why you'll want to stop it
immediately and don't forget to click
the subscribe button and turn on
notifications to join us on the bright
side of life counting down from number 9
your shoes will accumulate bacteria when
you think of things that transmit
bacteria you might imagine what unwashed
hands public restrooms or escalator
handrails have you ever considered how
much bacteria is on your shoes well
according to a study by the University
of Arizona the answer is a lot when
researchers collected germs and microbes
from shoes and found 421 thousand units
of bacteria there
this included ecoli a bacteria that can
give you extreme diarrhea abdominal
cramping nausea and in rare cases
meningitis they also found sriracha if
Ikaria which leads to respiratory
infections and Klebsiella pneumoniae
which commonly leads to wound and
bloodstream infections pretty scary
stuff and amazingly they didn't find
Sofia vegara which is unusual since
she's pretty much everywhere these days
number eight you can't escape picking up
bacteria so how does bacteria get in
your shoes dr. Charles greeba a
professor of microbiology and
environmental science at the University
of Arizona says that people pick up
bacteria when they walk in public
restrooms
dog waste and bird droppings walking on
leaves afterward can actually be food
for bacteria and make it grow even if
your neighbors are really good at
picking up after their dogs and you
don't usually walk on the mess chances
are you'll visit a public restroom at
some point or another area where
people's shoes have spread bacteria oh
geez there's just no escaping it now is
there if you like to put your feet up on
the coffee table now and then or get
into bed for a quick rest with your
shoes on you're spreading bacteria not
only to your home's floor but to your
bed and places where you eat
hoo-wee as you might have guessed this
can make you sick number seven children
are more susceptible you probably don't
spend your days crawling on the floor
but your children do babies and toddlers
often put their hands on the floor and
then put them in their mouths if they're
constantly crawling on a germ-infested
floor it's very likely they'll get sick
more often if they put toys on the floor
and then stick them in their mouths
that's another way of transmitting germs
and when it comes to carpeted homes the
problem becomes much worse mold and
bacteria can grow over time and
dangerous organisms survive longer on
carpets that are hard floors and it's
not just children that are effective if
you're doing yoga exercising on the
floor or just like to sit on the floor
to read or do work you're bringing
bacteria with you throughout your entire
house number six shoes can make your
allergies worse if you suffer from hay
fever like I do you know how miserable
the experience can be but life doesn't
stop with allergy season so even though
you'd be safer inside you still need to
head outside to go to work do chores and
pick up the kids according to doctor
greeba shoes also pick up mold and
allergens like pollen if your immune
system is weakened you should definitely
leave your shoes outside otherwise you
can expect to be coughing have
my eyes and a dry throat and be blowing
your nose non-stop and that's not very
pleasant
number five dangerous toxins can affect
you a study by the Environmental
Protection Agency found that if you
treat your lawn with herbicides those
toxins will then be transported into
your house through your shoes it's not
as easy as changing your shoes the day
you apply the herbicide because the
herbicide they studied to four D can be
transmitted for up to a week after
application that means you'd have to
stay off your lawn for at least a week
exposure to this herbicide can cause
skin rashes and gastrointestinal
problems in the short term and it isn't
clear what would happen in the long term
though it probably isn't good another
study conducted by Baylor University
found that if you live near an asphalt
road that's sealed with coal tar and you
bring those toxins into your home on
your shoes wow there's a higher chance
that you could get cancer before you
panic this would only happen if you were
exposed to those toxins many times in
your life number four your house will
get dirty in addition to bacteria and
toxins shoes can also carry dirt and mud
many people who want to keep a clean
carpet ask their guests to place their
shoes outside not knowing that it's also
saving them from dangerous
microorganisms if you bring mud into
your home the mud itself won't make you
sick but who's to say there aren't
animal droppings in the mud that stuck
to your shoes so why risk it just leave
your shoes in the entryway this practice
will also make it much easier to keep
your home clean number three shoes can
exacerbate bunions now a bunion is a
foot deformity where the big toe is bent
inward bunions are sometimes genetic but
it's also likely they'll develop if a
person wears tight fitting shoes shoes
with pointed toes and high heels that
force all the toes to bunch up together
your feet are meant to be free every
once in a while and not just when you
sleep so when you let them be free of a
shoe as soon as you get home you're
allowing your Tootsie's to return to
their original upright and locked
position for landing and fight off the
damage caused by fashionable shoes that
crowd your toes but if you wear your
shoes all the time even indoors you are
putting more pressure on your toes over
time you can change their natural shape
number two
giving your feet a shoe break can stop
foot pain according to Adams Sternberg
an editor for New York Magazine people
walk in correctly and shoes are
responsible his take which is shared by
many others is that shoes were never
created to help our feet they were meant
to increase your height beauty and sex
appeal wearing shoes all the time can't
wrap your feet and prevent them from
getting the mobility they need your toes
are meant to stretch and your foot needs
to arch every now and that when you
don't give your feet a break it's likely
that the connective tissue in your feet
will become glued together over time
that will leave you with less mobility
and prevent you from being able to walk
as you want to walking barefoot might be
the thing your poor feet need to stop
baking and to allow them to stay mobile
long into old age and what better place
to do it then at home with all you've
learned about bacteria and toxins you
know not to walk barefoot outside right
number one your feet will get stinky oh
baby the more you wear shoes
particularly during hot weather the more
your feet will sweat now if you're
wearing shoes all the time and aren't
changing your sweaty socks you're likely
to develop athlete's foot and toenail
fungus really ruining that expensive
pedicure you just got it's not just your
feet that need to air out your shoes do
too particularly if you wear sneakers or
closed shoes if you never take a break
from the same
pair of shoes by the time you take them
off the odor coming from the area might
be strong enough that it makes you gag
and odor isn't the only thing to worry
about wearing improper footwear for a
long time can also cause a burning
sensation on the soles of your feet and
make them feel uncomfortably high now if
you just can't live without wearing your
shoes inside your house you can try
disinfecting them doctor greeba and his
team found that when shoes were clean
according to the manufacturer's
instructions
99% of bacteria was removed of course
putting your shoes in a washing machine
every day can be quite inconvenient a
second option is purchasing an
antimicrobial doormat there are many
brands and some claim to remove up to
90% of the debris on the bottom of your
shoes if you are convinced that your
feet should be free at home leave your
shoes outside or in the doorway you can
also invest in a shoe rack your feet
will see more mobility if they had eyes
you won't have to worry about getting
infections and you'll be able to take
off your shoes without any sneaky odor
escaping boom so tell us bright ciders
if you leave your shoes outside why did
you pick up this habit let us know in
the comment section don't forget to give
this video a like share it with your
friends and click subscribe to stay on
the Brightside bright side